Title: Thanh defends her Ph.D. Thesis 
Date: 2012-12-05 
Author: Abhishek Roy

**Title:**
High-Performance Processing of Continuous Uncertain Data

**Abstract:** 
Uncertain data has arisen in a growing number of applications such as sensor
networks, RFID systems, weather radar networks, and digital sky surveys.  The
fact that the raw data in these applications is often incomplete, imprecise and
even misleading has two implications: (i) the raw data is not suitable for
direct querying, (ii) feeding the uncertain data into existing systems produces
results of unknown quality.

This thesis presents a system for uncertain data processing that has two key
functionalities, (i) capturing and transforming raw noisy data to rich
queriable tuples that carry attributes needed for query processing with
quantified uncertainty, and (ii) performing query processing on such tuples,
which captures changes of uncertainty as data goes through various query
operators. The proposed system considers data naturally captured by continuous
distributions, which is prevalent in sensing and scientific applications.

The first part of the thesis addresses data capture and transformation by
proposing a probabilistic modeling and inference approach. Given that this task
is application-specific and requires domain knowledge, I demonstrate this
approach for RFID mobile data, specifically by building an inference and
cleaning substrate to transform raw RFID data streams to object location tuple
streams where locations are captured by probability distributions.

The second, also the main part, of this thesis examines query processing for
uncertain data modeled by continuous random variables. I propose new data
models and develop algorithms for relational processing, with a focus on
aggregation and conditioning operations. For operations of high complexity,
optimizations including approximations with guaranteed error bounds are
considered. Also, complex queries are addressed by query planning, which given
a query, finds an efficient plan that meets the user accuracy requirements.
Finally, I consider the support for user-defined functions (UDFs) on uncertain
data, which aims to compute the output distribution given uncertain input and a
black-box UDF. I propose a learning approach based on Gaussian processes to
compute approximate output with error bounds, and further employ a suite of
optimizations for online settings.

The experimental results based on both synthetic and real datasets show that
the proposed techniques outperform existing techniques such as Monte Carlo
sampling for many important workloads.

**Advisor:** 
Yanlei Diao 
