Title: Mohamed Y. Eltabakh visits from WPI
Date: 2012-10-10
Author: Abhishek Roy

**Title:** Speeding up Hadoop 

**Abstract:** 
My talk will be divided into two parts: In the first part, I will address
Hadoop’s performance and its limitations under different query types.  Hadoop’s
success as a competitor to traditional parallel database systems lies in its
superior scalability, flexibility, automatic fault-tolerance, and use of
inexpensive commodity hardware. However, such superiority does not come for
free. Indeed, executing queries efficiently over Hadoop is a challenging task.
I will present two mechanisms for boosting Hadoop’s performance by orders of
magnitude: One mechanism enables seamlessly colocating related data into HDFS
to speedup the execution of join and aggregation queries, while the other
mechanism enables early elimination of irrelevant splits to speedup selection
queries.

In the second part, I will present InsightNotes system; a research
prototype engine for advanced annotation management in relational
databases. InsightNotes addresses the challenges that arise from the
growing scale of annotations in scientific databases. On one hand,
end-users and scientists are incapable of analyzing and extracting
knowledge from the overwhelmingly reported annotations. And on the other
hand, current annotation management techniques fall short in providing
advanced processing over annotations beyond just propagating them to
end-users. I will highlight the research challenges our team is currently
addressing and preliminary ideas for solving them.

