Title: Courses
Date: 2014-02-01
Modified: 2014-02-01

**CMPSCI 445: Information Management**

This course provides an introduction to the design and use of database
systems, as well as the key issues in building such systems. The World Wide
Web is the largest distributed information management system. In addition to
database topics, this course will also provide an introduction to key
technologies for managing and exchanging data on the World Wide Web. In
presenting the fundamental principles of databases we cover the relational
model, conceptual design, and query languages. We also cover core database
implementation issues including storage and indexing, query processing and
optimization, transaction management and recovery. In presenting modern
Internet-based data management we will cover XML data, web application
development, and selected topics in information retrieval, information
integration. The course will also emphasize the secure management of data in
both conventional databases and the World Wide Web.


**CMPSCI 645: Database Design and Implementation**

This course covers the design and implementation of traditional relational
database systems and advanced data management systems. The course will treat
fundamental principles of databases: the relational model, conceptual design,
query languages, and selected theoretical topics. We also cover core database
implementation issues including storage and indexing, query processing and
optimization, as well as transaction management, concurrency, and recovery.
Additional topics will address the challenges of modern Internet-based data
management. These include XML data management, stream-based systems,
information integration, and database security. Prerequisites: an
undergraduate-level course on operating systems or databases.

**CMPSCI 745: Advanced Topics in Database Systems**

This graduate course covers advanced data and information management systems.
The first part of the course addresses the design and implementation of
advanced database systems including data warehouses, data mining, column-based
databases, parallel databases, and distributed databases. The second part of
the course explores advanced research topics including data streams, sensor
data management, data provenance and lineage, and probabilistic databases.

This is a three-credit graduate database course. The prerequisite is a
graduate course on the principles and implementations of traditional database
systems, an equivalent of CMPSCI645. Students with other backgrounds should
contact the instructor for approval for enrollment.

